l displeasure . This period of unhappiness was the making of Du Fu as a poet : Even Shan Chou has written that , " What he saw around him — the lives of his family , neighbors , and strangers – what he heard , and what he hoped for or feared from the progress of various campaigns — these became the enduring themes of his poetry " . Even when he learned of the death of his youngest child , he turned to the suffering of others in his poetry instead of dwelling upon his own misfortunes . Du Fu wrote : 
 Brooding on what I have lived through , if even I know such suffering , the common man must surely be rattled by the winds . 
 In 756 , Emperor Xuanzong was forced to flee the capital and abdicate . Du Fu , who had been away from the city , took his family to a place of safety and attempted to join the court of the new emperor ( Suzong ) , but he was captured by the rebels and taken to Chang 'an . In the autumn , his youngest son , Du Zongwu ( Baby Bear ) , was born . Around this time Du Fu is thought to have contracted malaria . 
 He escaped from Chang 'an the following year , and was appointed Reminder when he rejoined the court in May 757 . This post gave access to the emperor but was largely ceremonial . Du Fu 's conscientiousness compelled him to try to make use of it : he caused trouble for himself by protesting the removal of his friend and patron Fang Guan on a petty charge . He was arrested but was pardoned in June . He was granted leave to visit his family in September , but he soon rejoined the court and on December 8 , 757 , he returned to Chang 'an with the emperor following its recapture by government forces . However , his advice continued to be unappreciated , and in the summer of 758 he was demoted to a post as Commissioner of Education in Huazhou . The position was not to his taste : in one poem , he wrote : 
 I am about to scream madly in the office / Especially when they bring more papers to pile higher on my desk . 
 He moved on in the summer of 759 ; this has traditionally been ascribed to famine , but Hung believes that frustration is a more likely reason . He next spent around six weeks in Qinzhou ( now Tianshui , Gansu province ) , where he wrote more than sixty poems . 
 
 = = = Chengdu = = = 
 
 In December 759 , he briefly stayed in Tonggu ( modern Gansu ) . He departed on December 24 for Chengdu ( Sichuan province ) , where he was hosted by local Prefect and fellow poet Pei Di . Du subsequently based himself in Sichuan for most of the next five years . By the autumn of that year he was in financial trouble , and sent poems begging help to various acquaintances . He was relieved by Yan Wu , a friend and former colleague who was appointed governor general at Chengdu . Despite his financial problems , this was one of the happiest and most peaceful periods of his life . Many of Du 's poems from this period are peaceful depictions of his life at " thatched hut " . In 762 , he left the city to escape a rebellion , but he returned in summer 764 when he was appointed an advisor to Yan , who was involved in campaigns against the Tibetan Empire . 
 
 = = = Last years = = = 
 
 Luoyang , the region of his birthplace , was recovered by government forces in the winter of 762 , and in the spring of 765 Du Fu and his family sailed down the Yangtze , apparently with the intention of making their way there . They traveled slowly , held up by his ill @-@ health ( by this time he was suffering from poor eyesight , deafness and general old age in addition to his previous ailments ) . They stayed in Kuizhou ( in what is now Baidicheng , Chongqing ) at the entrance to the Three Gorges for almost two years from late spring 766 . This period was Du Fu 's last great poetic flowering , and here he wrote 400 poems in his dense , late style . In autumn 766 , Bo Maolin became governor of the region : he supported Du Fu financially and employed him as his unofficial secretary . 
 In March 768 , he began his journey again and 