 The flight deck had eight permanent storage positions connected by rails to the catapults and the hydraulically operated aircraft lift that brought the aircraft up from the hangar below on the trolleys used to move the floatplanes about . Two aircraft were intended to be stowed on the catapults and three more in temporary positions on the flight deck for a total of thirteen . 
 The 40 @-@ metre @-@ long ( 131 ft 3 in ) hangar was 20 metres ( 65 ft 7 in ) wide forward and 11 metres ( 36 ft 1 in ) at the rear . It was 6 metres ( 19 ft 8 in ) high and designed to stow nine aircraft . It was fitted with fire fighting foam and carbon dioxide dispensers as a result of wartime experience . The ' T ' -shaped lift was 12 @.@ 1 metres ( 39 ft 8 in ) wide at its forward end and 6 @.@ 6 metres ( 21 ft 8 in ) wide at the its aft end . It was 12 @.@ 1 metres long and had a capacity of 6 tonnes ( 5 @.@ 9 long tons ) . Petrol storage tanks with a capacity of 76 tonnes ( 75 long tons ) were installed in the former magazine of Turret No. 6 to provide each aircraft with enough fuel for three sorties . To recover the aircraft the collapsible crane formerly on the stern was moved up to the port side of the flight deck . Another crane was intended on the starboard side , but it was never fitted . 
 The ships had an air group of 11 each of Yokosuka D4Y dive bombers ( Allied reporting name " Judy " ) and Aichi E16A reconnaissance aircraft ( Allied reporting name " Paul " ) Both aircraft had development problems and neither air group ever had all of its intended aircraft . Coupled with a shortage of trained pilots , neither ship ever used its aircraft during combat . 
 
 = = = Other changes = = = 
 
 After the loss of the fast battleship Hiei at the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal in late 1942 to rudder damage , the IJN decided to reinforce the protection of the steering compartment and to create an auxiliary steering compartment . The protection of the former was strengthened by the addition of a concrete wall at least 1 metre ( 3 ft 3 in ) in thickness and some of the armour removed from the turrets was used to protect the latter . The double bottom below the former positions of aft turrets was converted to hold fuel oil ; this increased the ships ' endurance to 9 @,@ 500 nautical miles ( 17 @,@ 600 km ; 10 @,@ 900 mi ) at a speed of 16 knots . A pair of Type 22 surface @-@ search radars were also fitted during the conversion . 
 The removal of the secondary armament , the rear turrets and their supporting structures was generally compensated by the addition of the flight deck , hangar , AA guns and more fuel , and the metacentric height increased .23 metres ( 9 @.@ 1 in ) to 2 @.@ 81 metres ( 9 ft 3 in ) at full load as a result of the reduction in the displacement by over 2 @,@ 000 tonnes ( 2 @,@ 000 long tons ) to 40 @,@ 444 tonnes ( 39 @,@ 805 long tons ) . This also reduced the draught to 9 @.@ 03 metres ( 29 ft 8 in ) . The overhang of the flight deck at the stern increased the overall length to 219 @.@ 62 metres ( 720 ft 6 in ) and the beam was slightly reduced to 31 @.@ 71 metres ( 104 ft 0 in ) . 
 
 = = Ships = = 
 
 
 = = Service = = 
 
 Upon commissioning , the sister ships were assigned to the 1st Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet . Hyūga had an explosion in one of her main gun turrets that killed 11 men and injured 25 in 1919 ; the following year she accidentally collided with and sank a schooner , losing two crewmen . Before the start of the Pacific War , both ships frequently exercised off the coasts of the Soviet Union , Korea and China in addition to training in Japanese waters . Ise hosted Edward , Prince of Wales , and his aide @-@ de @-@ camp Lieutenant Louis Mountbatten in 1922 during the prince 's visit to Japan . In Korea Bay when the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake struck , they sailed to Kyushu where they loaded supplies from for the victims on 4 September . Together with two other battleships and a pair of light cruisers , Ise sank the destroyer Yayoi in 1926 during gunnery practice . Ise 's AA armament was upgraded in 1931 and Hyūga 's two years later . The latter ship was modernized in 1934 – 36 and Ise in 1935 – 37 , both at Kure Naval Arsenal . During the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War , the sisters frequently patrolled the Chinese coast in support of the blockade imposed by Japan . In August 1937 Hyūga ferried two battalions of Special Naval Landing Forces to Port Arthur . Three years later , she served as the flagship for the Emperor of the puppet state of Manchukuo , Henry Pu @-@ yi , during his state visit to Japan in June 1940 . On 15 November the ships were transferred to the 2nd Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet . The sisters were refitted in late 1940 in preparation for war , which included the fitting of external degaussing coils and additional AA directors . 
 
 = = = World War II = = = 
 
 When Japan began the Pacific War on 8 December , the sisters sortied for the Bonin Islands with four other battleships and the light carrier Hōshō as distant cover for the fleet attacking Pearl Harbor , and returned six days later . On 11 March 1942 Ise and Hyūga sortied from their anchorage at Hashirajima to join the unsuccessful search for the American carrier force that had attacked Marcus Island a week earlier . Similarly they pursued but did not catch the American carriers that had launched the Doolittle Raid on 18 April . 
 During gunnery training on 5 May , there was a premature detonation in the left gun of Hyūga 's Turret No. 5 that disabled both guns and killed 51 crewmen . Both aft magazines were flooded to douse the resulting fire and save the ship . She received temporary repairs during which the turret was removed and replaced by a circular armour plate on which three triple 25 mm gun mounts were positioned . On 11 May a valve in Ise 's No. 2 engine room stuck in the open position and flooded the engine room . While under repair at Kure , both ships received prototype Type 21 radars . Commanded by Vice @-@ Admiral Shirō Takasu , the 2nd Battleship Division set sail with the Aleutian Support Group on 28 May , at the same time that most of the Imperial Fleet began an attack on Midway Island ( Operation MI ) . 
 They returned home on 14 June and the IJN began preliminary planning to replace the lost carriers with hybrid carriers converted from battleships . The sisters were selected for conversion and detached from the division on 14 July in preparation . They remained on " standby alert " until the actual conversions began . Ise was converted at Kure Naval Arsenal from 23 February to 5 September 1943 and Hyūga at Sasebo Naval Arsenal from 2 May to 30 November . 
 After completing her sea trials , Ise was attached to the Imperial Japanese Naval Academy at Etajima and ferried troops and munitions to the naval base at Truk in October . In November the ship began working up , joined by the newly completed Hyūga the following month , and both rejoined the 2nd Battleship Division . On 1 May 1944 , the sisters were transferred to Rear Admiral Matsuda Chiaki 's reformed Fourth Carrier Division of the 3rd Fleet . The division 's 634th Naval Air Group was formed that same day and conducted its first catapult launches in late June . 
 
 = = = = Battle of Cape Engaño = = = = 
 
 Shortages of aircraft and serviceability problems greatly retarded pilot training and the ships only had a total of 17 D4Ys and 18 E16As on hand on 1 October ; of these , only 6 and 16 were operational , respectively . The Japanese plan for the defence of the Philippines envisioned that the surviving carriers would be used to lure the American carrier forces away from the invasion area to a position where the carriers could be attacked by land @-@ based aircraft and the transports by the rest of the IJN . The other carrier air groups were not in much better shape and the Japanese decided to retain the aircraft ashore for use against the American carriers . The Fourth Carrier Division was assigned to the Northern Force under the command of Vice Admiral Jisaburō Ozawa and the sisters sailed from Yashima on 20 October . On the morning of 24 October , the bulk of the few aircraft aboard were launched to attack the American carriers as a distraction . They inflicted no damage and caused the Americans to search in the direction from which they had attacked . The Americans finally spotted the Japanese carriers at 16 : 40 , some 200 miles ( 320 km ) east of Cape Engaño , the northeastern tip of Luzon . The American carriers were spread out and it was very late in the day to launch an airstrike , so Admiral William Halsey , commander of the Third Fleet decided to mass his carriers in a position to attack the following morning . Ozawa reversed course during the night , correctly believing that the Americans would follow him north . 
 Although they had lost contact during the night , the Americans did find the Japanese carriers at 07 : 35 . They had already launched an airstrike of 180 aircraft that was orbiting 50 miles ( 80 km ) ahead of the American carriers while waiting for the Japanese ships to be located . This was just the first of a total of five airstrikes that the Americans launched that day . The sisters were not heavily engaged by the early airstrikes which are focusing on the group 's aircraft carriers . Ise claimed to have shot down five attacking dive bombers from the second wave and one small bomb detonated on Turret No. 2 . Hyūga was lightly damaged by near misses that rupture some hull plating in her bulge and pepper her superstructure with splinters . She took on a 5 @-@ degree list that was quickly corrected before she was ordered to tow the crippled carrier Chiyoda to safety . Her attempt was unsuccessful and Chiyoda had to be abandoned to her fate . 
 Ise was attacked by 80 @-@ odd aircraft from the fourth wave , but they failed to inflict any serious damage . She dodged 11 torpedoes and was only hit by a bomb once , on the bulge outboard of the port catapult . Some 34 other bombs near missed her , spraying her with splinters and ruptured some hull plates that contaminated some fuel oil and caused leaks in her port boiler rooms . While an exact total of her casualties is not available , it has been estimated that 5 men were killed and some 111 – 121 crewmen were wounded during this attack . Hyūga was unsuccessfully attacked by an American submarine at 18 : 43 . Around 19 : 00 Ozawa learned about a force of destroyers and cruisers that drove off the Japanese destroyers rescuing survivors from some of the carriers lost earlier in the day and sank Chiyoda . He ordered the Fourth Carrier Division to reverse course and engage the Americans , but the battleships were unable to find them , and Ozawa ordered them to reverse course and head for Amami Ōshima . When they arrived on 27 October , Ozawa transferred to Hyūga and hoisted his flag aboard her . While en route for Kure , the division was unsuccessfully attacked by another submarine . 
 In early November the catapults were removed from both ships , and they loaded troops and munitions later that month . While en route they were diverted to the Spratly Islands upon reports of heavy air raids at Manila . After off @-@ loading their cargo , they sailed for Lingga Island , near Singapore , on 20 November . They transferred to Cam Ranh Bay , French Indochina and Hyūga became flagship of the 5th Fleet there on 14 December . The division sailed for Singapore on 30 December and Vice Admiral Kiyohide Shima transferred his flag to the light cruiser Ōyodo on arrival there the following day . The division continued onwards to Lingga . Its planned return to Japan was delayed by attacks by the American Third Fleet on targets in Indochina and southern China that sank two oil tankers that were intended to refuel the division . 
 The IJN then decided to use the sisters and their escorts to bring a load of petrol , rubber , tin and other strategic minerals back to Japan after the American carriers departed the South China Sea ( Operation Kita ) . They loaded their cargoes beginning on 6 February at Singapore and departed four days later . Also carrying some 1 @,@ 150 oilfield workers , they were escorted by Ōyodo and three destroyers . Decrypted Japanese radio signals revealed the Japanese plan to the Allies , and 15 submarines were positioned along their anticipated route in an attempt to intercept and sink the ships . An additional 11 were moved into position while the group was en route , but only three were ultimately able to attack . None of them were successful before the Japanese reached Kure on 20 February . The Fourth Carrier Division was disbanded on 1 March and the sisters were reduced to 1st rank reserve ships . On 19 March Kure was attacked by aircraft from Task Force 58 and Hyūga was hit three times by bombs that killed 37 men and wounded 52 . Her gunners claimed to have shot down one American dive bomber during the attack . Ise was hit twice during the attack , but her casualties , if any , are unknown . 
 The ships were turned into floating AA batteries over the next several months although it availed them little when they were attacked again by American carrier aircraft in July . On the 24th Ise was struck by five bombs and near missed multiple times ; all told she lost 50 crewmen killed and many others wounded . The bombs started numerous leaks and Ise began to settle by the bow , although she was returned to an even keel after three @-@ days pumping . Hyūga was a primary focus of the attack and she received 10 direct hits and up to 30 near misses . She was badly damaged with some 200 @-@ odd crewmen killed and 600 wounded during the attack . She slowly foundered over the next two days and was not attacked when the Americans returned four days later . This time it was Ise 's turn and she was struck 11 or more times with many near misses that put her on the bottom in shallow water with a 15 degree list . The sisters were struck off the Navy List in November and their wrecks were scrapped after the war . 
 
 
 = Dick Rifenburg = 
 
 Richard Gale " Dick " Rifenburg ( August 21 , 1926 – December 5 , 1994 ) was an American football player and a pioneering television broadcaster for the forerunner to WIVB @-@ TV in Buffalo . He played college football for the University of Michigan Wolverines in 1944 and from 1946 to 1948 . He was a consensus selection at end on the 1948 College Football All @-@ America Team . Rifenburg played professionally in the National Football League ( NFL ) with the Detroit Lions for one season in 1950 . After retiring from football he settled in Buffalo and became a sports broadcaster . He worked as a color commentator and as a play @-@ by @-@ play announcer for the Buffalo Bulls . He hosted various television and radio sports shows and was eventually inducted into the Buffalo Broadcasters Hall of Fame . 
 In college , he led the Big Ten Conference in single season receptions during his senior year and set Michigan Wolverines receptions records for both career touchdown and single @-@ season touchdowns . He had also been a Michigan High School Athletic Association ( MHSAA ) state champion in both basketball and track and field . His college career was interrupted by World War II service , and his high school career was also affected by the war due to the MHSAA 's cancellation of state championships in all sports in 1943 . 
 
 = = High school = = 
 
 Rifenburg was born in Petoskey , Michigan , and raised in Kalamazoo , Michigan before his family moved to Saginaw , Michigan . Rifenburg was a star athlete at Saginaw 's Arthur Hill High School in football , basketball , and track and field . In 1943 , Michigan canceled boys high school tournaments in all sports due to World War II , and they did not return until the fall of 1944 . In 1944 , he led Arthur Hill High to the MHSAA Class A high school basketball championship ( over Kalamazoo Central High School ) , scoring 24 points , including 17 in the second half , of the championship game . Rifenburg was also the state champion in 1944 in both the shot put 46 feet 11 inches ( 14 @.@ 30 m ) and high jump 5 feet 8 @.@ 5 inches ( 1 @.@ 74 m ) . He also led Arthur Hill in football , and his high school accomplishments are featured in Glory : The history of Saginaw County sports by Jack Tany ( ASIN B0006RH9Z6 ) , which is a book on high school sports in Saginaw County , Michigan . Rifenburg was named All State in football , basketball and track . 
 It is ironic that Rifenburg was born in Petoskey , Michigan in 1926 for several reasons . Ted Petoskey preceded Rifenburg as an All @-@ American end on the University of Michigan football team . Petoskey had excelled as a representative of Saginaw County in MHSAA competition . Petoskey posted significant football accomplishments in 1926 making 1926 a significant year for himself as well . Achieving All @-@ American status as an end at Michigan would be Rifenburg 's next step after excelling in MHSAA competition . 
 
 = = College = = 
 
 In the fall of 1944 , Rifenburg enrolled at the University of Michigan . The United Press syndicate ran a feature article about Rifenburg in September 1944 that opened as follows : " Another great end has made his appearance on the Big Ten football horizon in the person of Dick Rifenburg , 18 @-@ year @-@ old Michigan freshman . Every so often a great offensive end comes along , a player who has to learn how to play defense , but who has the natural speed , smooth actions , height and big hands that is the mark of an outstanding pass receiver . Rifenburg has laid claim to that rating . A loose @-@ limbed 180 @-@ pound freshman from Saginaw , Mich . , Rifenberg is being boomed as the Big Ten 's next ' freshman sensation . ' " As a freshman , he caught two touchdown passes in his first college football game against Iowa . In an article titled " Teens and TNT , " Time reported on Rifenburg 's performance : " Of the few teams already in action , Michigan 's teens rang the freshman bell loudest last week by winning their opener , 12 -to @-@ 7 , against the strong Iowa Seahawks ( Naval Pre @-@ Flight ) ; 6 @-@ ft . 4 Freshman End Dick Rifenburg caught passes and ran for both Michigan touchdowns . " 
 Rifenburg 's college career was interrupted by World War II service in the United States Navy , but after missing the 1945 season , he returned to play for the Wolverines from 1946 to 1948 . Rifenburg played for the Wolverines in consecutive undefeated National Championship seasons in 1947 and 1948 . He started nine games for the 1947 team . The 1947 team referred to as " Michigan 's Mad Magicians " is considered to be the greatest University of Michigan football team of all time . Rifenberg and teammate Len Ford had the reputation as the team practical jokers . During the 1947 game against Wisconsin , Rifenburg started calling signals for the Badgers . Wisconsin 's offense protested to officials , who " prowled the Wolverines secondary but never caught their man . " Rifenburg continued to scramble Badger signals , as Rifenburg 's teammates laughed at his scheme . In the January 1 , 1948 Rose Bowl that season , Michigan rolled to a 49 – 0 victory over USC , and they outgained the Trojans 491 yards to 133 . Rifenburg caught a 29 @-@ yard pass for the game 's final score . 
 In the 1948 championship season , Rifenburg scored eight touchdowns , caught 22 passes , and gained 610 yards ( 508 receiving and 102 rushing ) . Rifenburg was the second highest scoring end in the nation in 1948 , and he was a consensus All @-@ American as a senior , being selected as first team on nine of the 11 All @-@ American teams . Rifenburg led the Big Ten in receptions . 
 Although Rifenburg finished fourth among midwestern Heisman voters in 1948 , he did not finish among the top eight . By comparison , Notre Dame end Leon Hart won the Heisman Trophy in 1949 but made only eight of the 11 All @-@ American teams . It is not clear why Rifenburg did not finish higher . However , it is fairly clear that sportswriters of that era had a bias against Michigan . In the Associated Press poll at the end of the 1947 season , the Notre Dame Fighting Irish were ranked ahead of the University of Michigan , though both teams were undefeated . Some noted that every Southern AP voter had voted for Notre Dame , which had yet to integrate , whereas three of Michigan 's star players ( Bob Mann , Gene Derricotte , and Len Ford ) were African @-@ American . The Southern schools refused even to schedule games against schools that played African @-@ American players . 
 Rifenburg was considered one of the greatest Wolverine 's of the 1940s . In four seasons with the Michigan Wolverines , Rifenburg played in 32 games and had over 1 @,@ 000 yards of total offense . Rifenburg held the University of Michigan 's single season and career record for touchdown receptions ( eight in a season ; sixteen career ) until his records were broken by Anthony Carter in 1980 . 
 
 = = Professional career = = 
 
 In 1948 , Rifenburg was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the 15th round of the NFL draft , and he was also drafted by the New York Yankees of the All @-@ America Football Conference . He had intended to play in 1949 with the Yankees , but suffered a knee injury in a practice session for the August 1949 Chicago College All @-@ Star Game . Press accounts at the time noted that the injury " will probably keep him out of pro football all season , if not forever . " The incident led to a debate as to whether NFL owners should " bar their men from playing with the college all @-@ stars . " 
 Rifenburg landed a job at WJR radio in Detroit , but he left his sportscaster 's job to join the Detroit Lions . In the 1950 NFL season , Rifenburg came back from his injury to play for the Detroit Lions . He played in 12 games and had ten receptions for 96 yards and one touchdown for the 1950 Lions . Rifenburg recalled that his playing time with the Lions was limited because the Lions also signed 1949 Heisman Trophy winner Leon Hart , who played the same position . 
 In May 1951 , he announced he was retiring from professional football to become sports director at a radio station in Buffalo . He was hired as a sportscaster by WBEN ( now known as WIVB ) , which had just started the first television station in Buffalo and the only one serving Southern Ontario . This was an early foray into television by the Buffalo Evening News . In the 1950s , Rifenburg hosted a popular panel show called " Let 's Talk Sports " in Buffalo and also pioneered an early morning exercise program . He also worked for WBEN ( AM ) and WBEN ( FM ) and as the sideline announcer for Buffalo Bills games along with Van Miller , the long time Bills play @-@ by @-@ play announcer . In addition , he served as the play @-@ by @-@ play announcer for the University of Buffalo Bulls football team . As a radio broadcaster , he is remembered for things ranging from ski reports , to 17 years worth of " Breakfast At — " programs live from various local restaurants , to 27 years as the WBEN @-@ AM All Night Show host . 
 After 30 years with WBEN and a change in ownership for the station , his show was replaced with the Mutual Network 's The Larry King Show . In the 1980s , Rifenburg taught communications at Buffalo 's Medaille College and served as a disc jockey on Public Broadcasting 's radio station WEBR ( now WDCZ ) . He also sold ads for Buffalo Evening News competitor , Buffalo Courier @-@ Express . Rifenburg 's final employer was Erie County , who hired him as an inmate training supervisor at the Erie County Correctional Facility . 
 Rifenburg was posthumously inducted into the Buffalo Broadcasters Hall of Fame in September 2007 . He was given the Golden Age Award which is reserved for " those who did it first , the people who had no pattern to follow . " The Hall of Fame award was 